Restructure Api Gateway Documentation (#13675)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/api-gateway/install.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway Install
description:  >-
  Installing Consul API Gateway
---

# Installing Consul API Gateway

This topic describes how to use the Consul API Gateway add-on module. It includes instructions for installation and configuration.

## Requirements

Ensure that the environment you are deploying Consul API Gateway in meets the requirements listed in the [Technical Specifications][tech-specs]. This includes validating that the requirements for minimum versions of software are met. See the [Release Notes][rel-notes] for the version of API Gateway you are deploying.

## Installation

-> **Version reference convention:** Replace `VERSION` in command and configuration examples with the Consul API Gateway version you are installing, such as `0.3.0`. In some instances, `VERSION` is prepended with a lowercase _v_. This indicates that you must include the `v` as is part of the version, for example `v0.3.0`.

> 

Author: That makes perfect sense and I'm pretty sure @mikemorris started moving our docs in the direction of using an environment variable.

> 

Reviewer: Yea, I reworked this section in https://github.com/hashicorp/consul/pull/13681 - had been intending to wait until after this restructure was merged, but looks like my PR got merged early, this could be rebased to pick up that change.

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul API Gateway Install
description:  >-
  Installing Consul API Gateway
---

# Installing Consul API Gateway

> This topic describes how to use the Consul API Gateway add-on module. It includes instructions for installation and configuration.

Reviewer 2: is "add-on module" something people would know? can we simplify this?

```suggestion
This topic describes how to install and configure Consul API Gateway.
```

## Requirements

> Ensure that the environment you are deploying Consul API Gateway in meets the requirements listed in the [Technical Specifications][tech-specs]. This includes validating that the requirements for minimum versions of software are met. See the [Release Notes][rel-notes] for the version of API Gateway you are deploying.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure that the environment you are deploying Consul API Gateway in meets the requirements listed in the [Technical Specifications][tech-specs]. This includes validating that the requirements for minimum versions of software are met. Refer the [Release Notes][rel-notes] for the version of API Gateway you are deploying.
```

## Installation

1. Set the version of Consul API Gateway you are installing as an environment variable. The following steps use this environment variable in commands and configurations.

> ```shell-session

Reviewer 2: let's indent these code blocks, they're not nested under each bullet point. as a result, the numbered list isn't rendering correctly

<img width="939" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7556325/182291170-36750d84-5f19-4682-92a5-80dfea73aa6f.png">

$ export VERSION=0.3.0
```

1. Issue the following command to install the CRDs:

```shell-session
$ kubectl apply --kustomize="github.com/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/config/crd?ref=v$VERSION"
```

1. Create a `values.yaml` file for your Consul API Gateway deployment by copying the following content and running it in the environment where you set the `VERSION` environment variable. The Consul Helm chart uses this `values.yaml` file to deploy the API Gateway. Available versions of the [Consul](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul/tags) and [Consul API Gateway](https://hub.docker.com/r/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/tags) Docker images can be found on DockerHub, with additional context on version compatibility published in [GitHub releases](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-api-gateway/releases). For more options to configure your Consul API Gateway deployment through the Helm chart, refer to [Helm Chart Configuration - apiGateway](https://www.consul.io/docs/k8s/helm#apigateway).

> <CodeBlockConfig filename="values.yaml">
> 
>   ```shell
>   cat <<EOF > values.yaml
>     global:
>       name: consul
>     connectInject:
>       enabled: true
>     controller:
>       enabled: true
>     apiGateway:
>       enabled: true
>       image: hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:$VERSION
>   EOF
>   ```
> 
> </CodeBlockConfig>

Reviewer 2: since people are running the command rather than creating an actual file

````suggestion
<CodeBlockConfig>

```shell-session
$ cat <<EOF > values.yaml
    global:
      name: consul
    connectInject:
      enabled: true
    controller:
      enabled: true
    apiGateway:
      enabled: true
      image: hashicorp/consul-api-gateway:$VERSION
EOF
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
````

1. Install Consul API Gateway using the standard Consul Helm chart or Consul K8s CLI specify the custom values file. Available versions of the [Consul Helm chart](https://github.com/hashicorp/consul-k8s/releases) can be found in GitHub releases.

> <Tabs>

Reviewer 2: should we move Consul K8s first since it's the recommended path?

<Tab heading="Helm">

> 
> ```shell-session
> $ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
> ```
> 
> ```shell-session
> $ helm install consul hashicorp/consul --version 0.45.0 --values values.yaml --create-namespace --namespace consul
> ```

Reviewer 2: Let's add instructions before the steps to give users more context

````suggestion
Add the HashiCorp Helm repository.

```shell-session
$ helm repo add hashicorp https://helm.releases.hashicorp.com
```

Install Consul with API Gateway on your Kubernetes cluster by specifying the `values.yaml` file.

```shell-session
$ helm install consul hashicorp/consul --version 0.45.0 --values values.yaml --create-namespace --namespace consul
```
````

</Tab>

> <Tab heading="Consul K8s CLI (Mac Only)">
> Note: You can review the official [Consul K8S CLI documentation](https://www.consul.io/docs/k8s/k8s-cli) to learn more about additional settings.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<Tab heading="Consul K8s CLI (Mac Only)">

~> **Tip:** You can review the official [Consul K8S CLI documentation](/docs/k8s/k8s-cli) to learn more about additional settings.
```

Reviewer 2: we need a new line between tabs and callouts or else it doesn't render properly

<img width="963" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7556325/182291913-2cfa0de8-20d3-48da-b110-5965291dcf88.png">

> 
> ```shell-session
> $ brew tap hashicorp/tap
> ```
> 
> ```shell-session
> $ brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s
> ```
> 
> ```shell-session
> $ consul-k8s install -config-file=values.yaml -set global.image=hashicorp/consul:1.12.2
> ```

Reviewer 2: ````suggestion

Install the HashiCorp tap, a repository of all HashiCorp's Homebrew packages.

```shell-session
$ brew tap hashicorp/tap
```

Now, install `consul-k8s`.

```shell-session
$ brew install hashicorp/tap/consul-k8s
```

Install Consul with API Gateway on your Kubernetes cluster by specifying the `values.yaml` file.

```shell-session
$ consul-k8s install -config-file=values.yaml -set global.image=hashicorp/consul:1.12.2
```
````
